Let's continue looking at how to call call in from Java I fixed their Java code here.
Now that we're using the JVM field annotation I fix this to access the model property directly rather
than calling get monel.
OK so we've seen how we can access top level functions.
They essentially become static methods within a class the compiler generates under the covers.
Well what about companion objects.
How do we access functions within companion objects.
And the same goes for non anonymous object instances.
Instances that we create using the object keyword.
Well if you want Javid to be able to access them you have to use the at JVM static annotation the JVM
static annotation tells the compiler to generate two versions of the function one within the instance
as it normally would.
And also a static version of the function that can be called from Java.
So let's try this out.
Let's go back to our Cartland code and we're going to add a companion object to our car class.
So we'll say companion object and we'll give it a function called Car comp and all that will do is print
a message and it'll say time in the car's companion object.
So now let's access this from Java.
So we'll say okay car and let's say companion because it suggesting it to us and we're like OK yeah
we'll take that dot car cop.
Wow that looks good.
Everything got suggested to us.
So that works or does it work.
What we're actually doing right now is we're accessing the instance method generated by the compiler.
And if that's OK with you you're done.
But remember in cotland we don't need the companioned key word in CANTLIN we can do the following.
We can just go ahead and say car Daut car comp we don't need to put the companioned key word in here.
So if you want to be able to do the same thing in Java then you need to add the JVM static annotation
so that you're calling it statically rather than calling an instance method.
So to do that you just add JVM static in front of the function name.
And now if we go back to Java we can remove the companion and it works if we didn't have the JVM static
in front this doesn't work.
So by putting JVM static here you're saying that you want Java to be able to call this using the static
version of the method because remember I said that the compiler will generate two versions.
So if you want to be able to use a statically you have to use a JVM static keyword.
Otherwise the compiler will just generate the one version of the function and that'll be an instance
method.
So if you want it to be a static Massad you want the compiler to generate both versions.
You have to add JVM static.
And now you can go ahead and call it just like you would a static java method.
So this could be important to know depending on what the car comp function does.
I mean if the car function is accessing static properties for example and let's say you're accumulating
something in a property and you need to you need it to be static then this is important to know.
You don't want to call the instance method.
Now the same applies to a named object instances.
Let's create one in our Cartland file so will say object Singleton logs and we'll have a fun do something.
And you know just print line.
I'm doing something.
The singleton object.
All right so now let's try accessing this from our Java code so I'll pop back over here now.
So let's type.
Singleton Aag dot and right away intelligence suggests instance in all caps we can't see the do something
function directly.
So what is instance well instance is the single instance of the object class.
Remember that when we declare an object like this there will only ever be one instance of this object
created.
So back in in Java that's what this instance is referring to.
So when compiling an object class Scottland compiler generates a static class and adds a field called
instance to it.
And this field is assigned the single instance of the class.
Now you never need to access this field when using an object class from CANTLIN but you can access it
when calling call in from Java.
So we'll say instance Daut.
And now we can get to our do something function.
So let's run
and we'll see that it works and we're also getting our print line now from our car comp function but
it doesn't look Javal like really.
I mean normally in Java you'd probably call a get instance method here.
So once again we can annotate the method with JVM static.
So if we come back here we can say at JVM static.
And now we head back to our Java class we can drop the instance and just call do something and if we
run again
we'll see that it's still work.
So this looks a little more Java like.
You don't have to do it but if you want to you can easily annotate the method here.
So what about fields within an object class.
Well often they're private.
Especially when the object is a singleton but they don't have to be private so let's add one to our
cars companion object.
So we'll say Val is auto equals false.
And now let's print this value from Java.
So we'll come back here.
Most say System outtalk print line is auto equals and will append because we don't have the nice string
templates in Java cardiod is.
Oh we don't get is auto suggested we have to go through companioned again and then we can see the is
Ahto.
So when we were accessing functions we could get rid of this by annotating with at JVM static.
So is there any way we can get rid of this here because now we have to go through the Geter as you can
see while we can come up to our property.
This time we can annotate it with at JVM field.
And now if we come back here they'll say Oh you're not using this anymore because now we can just go
card Daut is auto Now if you have a Konst field you don't have to annotate it it will automatically
be turned into a static field.
So let's add a contest to our Singleton here or rather our car companion object and we'll say constant
Vau constant constant equals 25.
And now let's go back and use this from Jav and you'll notice it's not annotated with anything.
And we can say car dot and we see our constant field on a property right away even though it's not annotated.
So this is an exception to the rule.
Now the same applies to what's called late initialize properties.
We didn't cover those in the course but if you come across them you don't need to annotate them to access
them as static fields from Java.
OK so now let's talk about null safety.
There's nothing to stop Java code from passing a novel to a function parameter that's expecting a non-null
type so called will generate an exception when this happens.
So let's add a function to our car class.
So we'll do this underneath the companion object and we'll say fine print me and we want to take text
that will be a string and we'll just say print line.
Don't expect a null value.
So we're not actually using the parameter here but we could just say text just so we're using it.
Now let's pass and no.
2 This function from Java.
So we'll come back here and we'll say Kardon print to me.
No.
So absolutely nothing is going to stop us from doing that.
We don't get any compile errors but if we run
we'll see that we get an illegal argument exception.
And so this is what happens if you have a function in courtliness expecting a non nullable type and
it receives a null value.
You'll get an illegal argument exception and what's happening is the compiler the calling compiler is
generating a check under the cover so it's actually generating a check for knowl and the moment it sees
knowl you get that and you don't even have to use the parameter.
Let me let me knock this off for a minute and you'll see that even though we don't use it we never reference
it.
We're going to get the same illegal argument exception
.
So the compiler is generating the check as soon as this function is entered.
It checks.
OK I want to non-call is it actually not all.
And if it is all you get the illegal argument exception.
So talking about exceptions cotland doesn't need functions to declare what exceptions they can throw.
But Java does.
So what happens when we have a function in cotland that can throw an exception and we call it from Java.
Well let's try this out.
We'll add another function to our Cottman file here.
We'll say fun and we'll pretend we're doing some IO here.
And inside we're going to throw an exception.
So this is obviously a really dumb function but this function throws an exception.
And of course we're in cotland so we don't have to declare that but we're throwing a checked exception.
So in Java we do have to declare when we throw an exception.
So let's go back to Java now and see what happens if we call this function as a top level function so
we'll say static Karakas back here.
We said that we want the name of the static class generated for all our top level items to be static
car.
I will say Daut and it's not saying it because I put it in the wrong place.
I actually put it in our car class so let me remove that and paste it up here and now are our Java code
will see it.
So we're not getting any errors even though we know that this function throws IO exception and if we
run you can probably guess what we're what's going to happen.
Actually let me first comment out the knol so we can get past that.
We're doing a lot of bad stuff now in here.
And of course we get the exception that we throw.
So let's say we want to catch this exception can we catch it.
Well let's give that a shot.
So I will say try
and we'll catch no exception.
And we get an error because we get the error that says that exception is never thrown from the try block
while we know it is because we're throwing it 100 percent of the time.
But as far as Jack knows the function doesn't throw anything because there's nothing in the compiled
Katlin class that says this function throws an Iowa exception to make the Katlin compiler generate something
that tells Java that.
Guess what the static Harakat do I O function can throw an exception and IO exception in this case we
have to annotate this function and we're going to annotate it with the at throws annotation and we're
going to say at throws.
And then within parentheses we're going to say what class this can throw.
And we have to use the.
Actually we don't need to double quotes.
We say no exception and then class.
So this now tells the compiler to generate code that will inform anything that's using this function
that this function throws an IO exception if we go about to Jaba now the error has gone away because
now Java can see that.
OK yeah do IO can throw in IO exception so you may have an exception to catch here.
So let's add a print line to our catch system.
Outdrawn front line IO exception
and when we run we should see this caught.
Now let's go ahead and run.
And we do we see our IO exception message.
So the last thing we're going to touch on as far as calling Cartland from Javid goes is a default parameters.
We've seen that you can specify a default parameter values in Katlin.
So when we do that what happens when we call the function from Java.
So let's try this out.
We'll go back to our crowded Cartland file now and we'll add a function that accepts default values
so we'll a fun default parks and will take a string just so that the default just so the parameter that
takes the default value isn't first or the only one in there must say none int and this grandmother
has a default value of 25.
So let's try to call this function now from Java so we can go back to Java
and say static car Daut default args.
Now you'll notice that what's being suggested to us has both parameters in it.
So we'll say OK the number is and will pass the value of 40.
And that works but this is supposed to be an optional parameter now because if we don't pass a value
it will just take the value of 25.
So let's knock off the 40 and we get an error.
The only function signature is that Chavez sees is the full function signature where everything is required.
And that's because when you have a Cottman function with default parameter values only one version of
the function is generated for Java.
So when the Cartland compiler comes along and compiles this it just generates one version of the function
and the version it generates requires both parameters.
There is no version of the function generated that will just take the string parameter.
So what do you do in this situation.
Well you probably guessed by now that you can use an annotation to get past this and in this case we
want to use the at JVM overloads annotation and this tells the compiler to generate every possible version
of this function.
So we'll say at JVM overloads.
And now this tells the compiler generate a default args function that takes only the string and then
under the covers of course that function will assign 25 to Nam or and rather generate the default args
function that takes both the string and the number.
So instead of only getting the full function version you'll get Boakes.
You'll get one version that doesn't require the name and one version that does so.
Now if we go back to I will see that this works.
So that's how to deal with default parameter arguments you can imagine if you had a bunch of parameters
that take defaults are going to get a lot of functions generated but that's OK.
Now you might decide that when you call this function from Java you want all the arguments to be specified.
So in that case you wouldn't need this annotation.
Now there are a few more situations.
You have to do something special when you're calling call in from Java.
But we've covered the most common situations so we're going to leave it here.
And so that's it for Java interoperability.
I'll see you in the next video.